(soothing music)
All right
in this video, we are going to review the recipe application
as we port it over to MongoDB.
So what I've done is I took that recipe application
that we worked with in traditional SQL
and I've ported it over and just for fun,
what I've done is I thought it would be fun
to do this using Gradle as well.
So right now, with Gradle, I've gone in and added in
these Spring Data MongoDB.
So that's a primary difference that we have from
the MySQL project.
So we took out the Spring Data JPA and went to MongoDB.
So that's the primary change that I made
in the project dependencies.
And what I wanna also look at is
under the domain, let's take a look at that.
I've migrated the domain a little bit
and still have a lot more work here to do,
but we were using a Long data type for the id value
and that has changed to String.
So I've gone ahead and made that change
and it was a little bit of a type migration
to update that
and propagated that through the whole project.
Now I want to point out, we do have our CrudRepository.
And what's interesting about Spring Data
is we are still using that same interface.
So that did not change,
so that is Spring Data interface that we're implementing
and now we've swapped out the JPA flavor of Spring Data
and we're now using the Mongo flavor,
but if you take a look at this,
actually let's take a drill into that.
If you click on this here in IntelliJ will take you
right to the class and we can see that
this is out of the springframework/data package.
So this is out of the Spring Data commons JAR.
So this is a common component that works across Spring Data.
So we didn't do any changes there
which is a really nice touch
when you're working with Spring Data.
We're making a fairly painless transition over.
I wanna warn you right now,
this branch, the master branch does not run
because we haven't done any Mongo configuration.
We are gonna definitely get into that.
We'll definitely be getting into setting up MongoDB,
but this is just the initial cut bringing over this project.
Now let's go back up to the project
and I wanna show you a couple other things.
If we come back into the Recipe,
notice that I've removed all the JPA-related annotations.
So now we just have a simple POJO here.
All our former domain models are just simple POJOs.
We're still using Project Lombok for the
getters and setters and they still have the same
relationships that they did prior,
but we've just removed all the JPA-related annotations.
And the other thing is, if I come into test,
I've set up the test now.
I'm gonna run all the tests
and I did have to ignore several of the tests
because the Spring context right now
is not starting up.
It's not happy because we don't have
a Mongo database connection so that is failing.
And plus, we haven't mapped any of these,
so if it did come up in a context,
even with a Mongo database connection,
I don't think the domain model would be happy.
It would probably throw some exceptions there.
But we are gonna be covering all that
coming up in the course.
Now the next thing I wanna point out is
our Controller layer is all the same.
Now we did migrate to a String for the id value
so the error handling for that NumberFormatException
that we formerly had,
or we still actually have it in there.
But now, everything is a String
so obviously, we're not gonna get
a NumberFormatException of a String value.
So that is one change that we had to deal with
in the migration.
But, as you can envision right now,
the front-end is gonna stay the same.
So our Controller layer is gonna stay the same.
The Thymeleaf templates are gonna stay the same
except for the type migration from a number of the id
to a String, there's really no changes there.
So our front-end is staying the same.
The service layer largely stays the same
except for the type migration.
And even getting into the repository layer,
that, from our code standpoint is staying the same.
So a lot of this is quite nice for us,
as far as migrating.
So this is kind of a significant change
because we're going from a SQL database
such as MySQL or H2 that we were using earlier in the course
and now we are going over to a NoSQL database.
So we do have some work to do yet,
but our project as whole, we have a lot of code here.
We still have a lot of tests.
We have three tests that are ignored,
but I'm gonna show you how to bring those back to life
in future sections of this module of the course.